--- PAGE 1 ---

SUBMISSION CHECKLIST 
Carefully review each item listed below before submitting your article. Article submissions that do not follow the guidelines 
below will be returned to draft or immediately rejected. 
1.   The manuscript should be prepared in a double column, 
single-spaced format using a required IEEE Access template. 
A Word or LaTex file and a PDF file are both required 
upon submission. The content on each file must match 
exactly. File sizes should not exceed 40MB. Download 
IEEE Access Templates for Microsoft Word and LaTex. 
2.   The manuscript should be prepared in a double column, 
single-spaced format using a required IEEE Access 
template. A Word or LaTex file and a PDF file are both 
required upon submission. The content on each file 
must match exactly. File sizes should not exceed 40MB. 
Download IEEE Access Templates for please click here. 
3.   Author lists should be carefully considered before 
submission. For more information on what constitutes 
an author, please click here. Contributors who do not 
meet IEEE’s definition of authorship should be included 
in the Acknowledgment section of the article. Omitting 
an author who contributed to your article or including 
a person who did not fulfill authorship requirements is 
considered a breach of publishing ethics. Any change 
to the author list after the article has been submitted 
is considered rare and exceptional, and the decision 
to allow such changes rests with the Editor. 
4.   The submitting author is required to have an ORCID 
ID associated with their account. The ORCID profile 
must be publicly visible and populated. For more 
information on ORCID, click here. The author 
designated as the corresponding author in the 
submission system will be the main point of contact 
for the article and will be responsible for approving 
the proof if the article is accepted for publication. 
5.   All authors should be listed on both the source file 
(Word of LaTex file) and the manuscript PDF file. When 
submitting your files ensure the submission system 
successfully extracts the full author list from your files. 
6.   Short biographies are required for ALL authors on an 
article submission. As indicated in the required IEEE Access 
templates, biographies of all authors should be included 
directly within the article below the references section. 
7.   The article should be thoroughly reviewed for proper 
grammar before being submitted. Articles with poor 
grammar will be immediately rejected. If needed, IEEE 
Access offers Paperpal Preflight to assist authors in checking 
their manuscript for grammar issues prior to submission. 
Check your manuscript on Paperpal Preflight by clicking here. 
8.   All research works should be carefully referenced. 
To learn more about avoiding plagiarism please click 
here. Do not include references that are not relevant 
to your work, and carefully check each reference for 
accuracy and ensure that they have not been retracted, 
as retracted references can undermine the validity of your work. Articles submitted with retracted references 
will be returned to the author for removal, or may be 
rejected if the validity of the research is affected. 
9.   The article should not be submitted elsewhere at the same 
time. More information about duplicate submission can be 
found here. 
10.   If applicable to your research, have any supplementary 
material for review ready for the submission process. 
11.   Authors must define abbreviations and acronyms the first 
time they are used in the article, even if they have already 
been defined in the abstract. Acronyms and abbreviations 
can have multiple meanings so it is important that these 
are clearly defined. 
12.   You must select a minimum of 3 (and a maximum of 10) 
manuscript keywords upon submission . Be sure the 
keywords are as accurate as possible to ensure a relevant 
Associate Editor is matched to manage the peer review of 
your articlee . 
13.   You will be required to select a manuscript type upon 
submission. A list and description of manuscript types are 
listed below. If you are unsure, please select “Research 
Article”. *Please note that should your article be accepted, 
the manuscript type will be published on the article. 
14. If applicable, have a list of opposed reviewers ready. 
15.   If your article has video (maximum file size is 100MB), 
have it ready to upload with the submission since 
all video must be peer reviewed with the article. 
16.   If the article was previously rejected after peer review 
with encouragement to update and resubmit, then a 
complete “list of updates” must be included in a separate 
document. The list of updates should have the following 
regarding each comment: 1) reviewers’ concerns, 2) 
authors’ response to the concerns, 3) actual changes 
implemented.  Refer to the original rejection letter for 
more information on requirements for resubmitting. 
17. While IEEE Access does not have a page limit; we strongly 
recommend keeping the page count under 20 pages for 
ease of readability. Longer articles may result in longer 
peer review times. Additional content can be added as 
supplementary material. Authors who have a special 
reason to submit a paper over 20 pages (not including 
Supplementary Material or Appendices, or if the article 
type is a Topical Review or Survey) must first make a pre-
submission inquiry to seek permission from the EIC. 
18.   In alignment with the IEEE Code of Ethics and with 
respect to the wishes of the subject of the image, IEEE 
will no longer accept submitted papers which include the 
‘Lena image’. For more information please click here. 
(Continued) 



--- PAGE 2 ---

MANUSCRIPT TYPES ACCEPTABLE FOR PEER REVIEW 
All article types undergo the same rigorous peer review. 
RESEARCH ARTICLE 
This is a classic research article that has a hypothesis, 
investigation, solution, model, physical experiment and/or 
simulation and a result that is of value to the community within 
that area of expertise. 
TOPICAL REVIEW 
This is a review of an emerging area within the journal’s scope 
that performs a technical and critical review of other articles. 
Calculations are performed and conclusions are drawn on the 
strengths and weaknesses. The conclusion can also discuss future 
challenges. An article that is descriptive, without a framework, 
and instead expounds a particular topic should be this type. 
THEORY 
This is a scholarly article that uses mathematical methods to 
develop new theoretical results of importance to the field. 
SURVEY 
A survey article analyzes, summarizes, systemizes, and presents 
fresh conclusions from a large number of recently published 
scholarly articles. A review article that has a well-defined 
framework for selecting and excluding papers and draws an 
overall conclusion from the body of those papers should be this 
type. An example of this would be a Systematic Literature Review 
(SLR). 
PERSPECTIVE 
This category of article is an in-depth viewpoint article intended 
to bring together a big picture in a fast-evolving landscape of 
technological development. It will typically be a topic where 
there is community uncertainty and/or disagreement. Since IEEE 
Access does not have a page limit, publishing perspective articles 
will allow more technical discussion. This category of article will 
typically be written by a leading authority in an area. 
APPLIED RESEARCH 
This article describes challenges and practical solutions for topics 
within the journal’s scope. Quantitative results for validation of 
the approach are expected. 
NEGATIVE RESULT 
This is a non-trivial theoretical or experimental negative or null 
result that does not support a hypothesis. Provided that the 
research question posed is meaningful and the study is rigorously 
conducted, this type of article has value to the engineering 
community. 
METHODS 
This article will report the development of new or improved 
fabrication or manufacturing technique, or a new experimental, 
measurement or mathematical technique. Applied research 
articles focus on practical systems, while here the focus is on 
methods. 
TUT ORIAL 
This is a pedagogical article to assist readers to learn and 
familiarize themselves with a topic. The topic may be be an 
emerging one that is not well understood in the community, or 
a difficult traditional topic that can benefit from an up to date 
exposition. The topic should not be one that is well understood 
or well represented in textbooks. The article must add to the existing literature to benefit the readership. The objectives and 
prerequisite background required by the reader should be clearly 
identified in the introduction. The references should cite both 
background material and advanced material for the reader to dig 
deeper. 
STANDARDS 
This article summarizes and expounds new or revised IEEE 
standards. This can also be a scholarly discussion paper for 
new IEEE standards or a critique of existing IEEE standards with 
recommendations. 
COMMENT 
This is an article that comments on another published article 
within IEEE Access. A comment points out a technical error, 
oversight, or presents an opposing position. It is a critique, 
providing corrections, and performs analyses. IEEE Access does 
not accept comment articles on articles published in other 
journals. The maximum page limit for a comment article is 2 
pages; anything longer will require EIC approval. 
REPLY 
A reply article is submitted by the authors of a published paper in 
response to a Comment article. Please note that we only allow one 
Comment and one Reply in response. We do not allow subsequent 
Comments and Replies. 
DEB ATE 
There are topics within the scope of IEEE Access where there 
is disagreement between experts. A debate paper will be a 
scholarly technical research paper that makes the case for a 
particular position. The EIC may invite an opposing debate paper 
to create balance. A perspective article looks at the big picture, 
whereas a debate paper is highly technical. 
EXPOSITION 
This is an expository scholarly article that does not produce a new 
result but revisits a complicated or poorly understood result and 
elucidates it with a fresh approach. It is a very technical article 
that digs into theory and interpretation. As opposed to a tutorial 
article, which is a “how” article, an exposition article is more of a 
“why” article. 
META-ANAL YSIS 
A meta-analysis is a statistical analysis that combines the results 
of multiple published scientific studies addressing the same 
question. A meta-analysis concludes by identifying effects that are 
statistically significant across the many studies. Such a paper not 
only can provide an estimate of the unknown common truth, but 
also has the potential to contrast results from different studies 
and identify sources of disagreement among these results, 
patterns among study results or other interesting results that may 
come to light in the context of multiple studies. 
UNSOLVED PROBLEM 
This is a technical scholarly article that investigates a tough 
problem that is not yet solved. The article is not able to solve it 
either. The article’s analysis concludes with identifying a clear set 
of open questions that the community needs to work on in order 
to make further progress. Papers such as this are expected to add 
clarity to complex issues and create a roadmap of questions for 
researchers to follow. 


